<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XXVI: “He Shall Hear Me!”</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="book-2" id="chapter-26" epub:type="chapter">
			<header>
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXVI</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">“He Shall Hear Me!”</p>
				</hgroup>
				<blockquote epub:type="epigraph z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span>There’s some ill planet reigns;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I must be patient till the heavens look</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With an aspect more favorable.</span>
					</p>
					<cite>
						<i epub:type="se:name.publication.play">Winter’s Tale</i>
					</cite>
				</blockquote>
			</header>
			<p>The time is midnight, the day the same as that which saw this irruption of Hickory into Professor Darling’s observatory; the scene that of Miss Dare’s own room in the northeast tower. She is standing before a table with a letter in her hand and a look upon her face that, if seen, would have added much to the puzzlement of the detectives.</p>
			<p>The letter was from <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Orcutt and ran thus:</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p>I have seen <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Mansell, and have engaged myself to undertake his defence. When I tell you that out of the hundreds of cases I have tried in my still short life, I have lost but a small percentage, you will understand what this means.</p>
				<p>In pursuance to your wishes, I mentioned your name to the prisoner with an intimation that I had a message from you to deliver. But he stopped me before I could utter a word. “I receive no communication from Miss Dare!” he declared, and, anxious as I really was to do your bidding, I was compelled to refrain; for his tone was one of hatred and his look that of ineffable scorn.</p>
			</div>
			<p>This was all, but it was enough. Imogene had read these words over three times, and now was ready to plunge the letter into the flame of a candle to destroy it. As it burned, her grief and indignation took words:</p>
			<p>“He is alienated, completely alienated,” she gasped; “and I do not wonder. But,” and here the full majesty of her nature broke forth in one grand gesture, “he shall hear me yet! As there is a God above, he shall hear me yet, even if it has to be in the open court and in the presence of judge and jury!”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
